- [Instructor] Let's dive in
to how we are leveraging Spring WebFlux
to create a rest API.
We will start by taking a look at the differences between
Spring WebFlux and Spring MVC.
By default, WebFlux is non blocking from top to bottom.
It uses Netty instead of Tomcat as a web server,
and it replaces the old Servlet API,
with a Project Reactor based Spring Web API.
While Spring WebFlux internally is very different
from Spring MVC,
you can use WebFlux in a similar manner
with Spring MVC annotations.
Recall that we wanted to create a series of endpoints
to allow for the following:
creating a new reservation, getting a reservation by ID,
updating an existing reservation,
and deleting an existing reservation.
Now let's take a look at how one of those endpoints
actually maps to some actual Spring WebFlux code.
First, we use a GetMapping annotation,
and pass in the URI of the string parameter.
Then, we return a mono
that emits a reservation as the return type.
Then we capture the ID as a parameter
using the path variable annotation.
And finally, we leverage our service implementation
to perform this lookup.
So we can see that you can use all the same mappings
from Spring MVC, that you may be familiar with.
The main difference is we return Spring Reactive Publishers
instead of a response entity.
Diving a bit more into the controller layer,
let's take a look at more details.
A RestController annotation is a composed annotation
that gives you both the controller
and response body annotations.
This allows for auto-registering of bean definitions.
Also, this marks the controller as a web component,
so that component scanning
can add it to the Spring application context.
The controller will leverage
the reactive ServerHttpRequest and response,
and finally, the JSON request body on incoming requests
will be exposed as a flux that emits a data buffer.
If you ever want to learn more about specific annotations,
the Spring docs are very comprehensive.
Clicking into each annotation and composed annotations
will help you learn a lot more
about the internals of Spring if you are interested.